---
title: Installation
---

System Requirements:

- [Node.js 18.x](https://nodejs.org/){target=\_blank} or later
- Windows, Linux or macOS

## Automatic Installation

We recommend starting a new Harmonix bot using `@harmonix-js/cli`, which sets up everything automatically for you. To create a project, run:

```bash icon=ph:terminal
npx @harmonix-js/cli init <my-bot>
```

On the installation you will see the following prompts:

```txt icon=ph:terminal
What is your project named? my-bot
Wich package manager would you like to use?
```

After the prompts, `@harmonix-js/cli` will create a folder with your project name and install the required dependencies.

If you're new to Harmonix, see the [project structure](./2.project-structure.md) docs for an overview of all the possible files and folders in your application

## Manual Installation

To manually create a new Harmonix bot, install the required packages:

```bash icon=ph:terminal
npm install @harmonix-js/core@latest @harmonix-js/cli@latest discord.js@latest
```

Open your `package.json` file and add the following `scripts`:

```json [package.json] icon=ph:brackets-curly
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "harmonix dev",
    "build": "harmonix build",
    "invite": "harmonix invite"
  }
}
```

These scripts refer to the different stages of developing an application:

- `dev`: runs [`harmonix dev`](/) to start the bot in development mode.
- `build`: runs [`harmonix build` ](/) to build the application for production usage.
- `invite`: runs [`harmonix invite`](/) to generate an invite link for the bot.

## Providing the bot token

Harmonix supports the use of environment variables to store sensitive information, such as the bot token. You may create a `.env` file in the root directory of your project and add the bot token.

```bash [.env] icon=ph:faders
DISCORD_CLIENT_TOKEN="YOUR_BOT_TOKEN"
```

If you dont have one yet, you can create a bot and get the token from the [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications){target=\_blank}.

## Run in Development Mode

1. Run `npm run dev` to start the bot in development mode.
2. Your bot online in your Discord server.
3. Create a new `commands/ping.ts` and see the bot restart automatically.
