---
title: Events
---

Harmonix automatically loads and executes event handlers when the bot is ready to receive events. Event handlers are defined in separate files, making it easier to manage and organize your bot's codebase.

## Handling events

Events are sent by Discord to notify the bot of various activities, such as when a message is received, a user joins a guild, or the bot is ready to start receiving events. You can see the full list of events in the [Discord documentation](https://discord.com/developers/docs/topics/gateway-events#receive-events){:target="\_blank"}.

```bash [Directory structure]
| events/
--| ready.ts
```

```ts [events/ready.ts] icon=typescript-icon
export default defineEvent(() => {
  console.log('Bot is ready')
})
```

The name of the file is the name of the event that it handles. The event name is derived from the file name, so `ready.ts` will handle the `ready` event.

## Custom events directory

If you want to change the folder where the events are stored, you can do so by modifying the `dirs.events` property in the configuration file.

```ts [harmonix.config.ts] icon=typescript-icon
export default defineHarmonixConfig({
  dirs: {
    events: 'listeners'
  }
})
```

## On-time events

If a handler should only be executed once, you can add the `.once` suffix to the file name.

```bash [Directory structure]
| events/
--| ready.once.ts
```

Or you can set the `once` property to `true` in the event handler configuration.

```ts [events/ready.ts] icon=typescript-icon
export default defineEvent(
  {
    once: true
  },
  () => {
    console.log('Bot is ready')
  }
)
```

## Accessing events arguments

Event handlers receive arguments that are specific to the event being handled. For example, the `ready` event handler receives a `client` object as an argument.

```ts [events/ready.ts] icon=typescript-icon
export default defineEvent<'ready'>((client) => {
  console.log(`Logged in as ${client.user?.tag}!`)
})
```

:::tip

Note that `defineEvent` is a generic function that accepts the event name as a type argument. This allows you to access the event-specific arguments in the handler function.

:::
