---
title: Command Registration
---

Commands are the primary way users interact with your bot. They can be used to perform a variety of actions, such as sending messages, fetching data, or executing other commands.

## Slash Commands

Slash commands are a type of command that can be triggered by typing `/` in the chat. You can define a command by default exporting a function from a file in the `commands` directory.

```ts [commands/ping.ts] icon=bxl:typescript,numbered
export default defineCommand(
  {
    description: 'Replies with Pong!'
  },
  async (interaction) => {
    await interaction.reply('Pong!')
  }
)
```

The name of the file is the name of the command that it handles. The command name is derived from the file name, so `ping.ts` will handle the `ping` command.

### Category

Commands can be categorized by creating subdirectories in the `commands` directory. The subdirectory name is used as the category name.
Or if you want to categorize commands using the `category` property in the command handler configuration.

```ts [Command configuration] icon=ph:gear-fine,numbered
{
  description: 'Replies with Pong!',
  category: 'general'
}
```

### Accessing Options

Commands can have options that are used to provide additional information to the command like an argument. Options can be defined in the command handler configuration.

```ts [commands/greetUser.ts] icon=bxl:typescript,numbered
export default defineCommand(
  {
    description: 'Greets a user',
    options: {
      user: {
        type: 'User',
        description: 'The user to greet'
      }
    }
  },
  async (interaction, context) => {
    const { user } = context.options

    await interaction.reply(`Hello, ${user?.username}!`)
  }
)
```

Each command handler receives `interaction` and `context` objects as an argument. The `interaction` object contains information about the command interaction, while the `context` object contains the command options.

::tip

The `context` object contains the command options, and the options are automatically resolved based on the command configuration.

::

## Context Menus

Context menus are a type of command that can be triggered by right-clicking on a message or user. You can define a context menu by default exporting a function from a file in the `context-menus` directory.

```ts [context-menus/getAuthor.ts] icon=bxl:typescript
export default defineContextMenu(
  {
    type: 'Message',
    description: 'Get the author of the message'
  },
  async (interaction, target) => {
    await interaction.reply(`The author of the message is ${target.author}`)
  }
)
```

Each context menu handler receives `interaction` and `target` object as an argument. The `interaction` object contains information about the context menu interaction and the `target` object contains the target of the context menu, so the `user` or the `message`.
