---
title: Installation
---

System Requirements:

- [Node.js 18.x](https://nodejs.org/){target=\_blank} or later
- Windows, Linux or macOS

## Automatic Installation

To quickly start a new Harmonix bot, we recommend using the [`@harmonix-js/cli`](/) tool. This will handle the setup for you. Open your terminal and run:

```bash icon=terminal
npx @harmonix-js/cli init <my-bot>
```

You will be prompted to provide the following information:

```txt icon=terminal
What is the name of your project?
Wich package manager would you like to use? npm / pnpm / yarn
Initialize git repository? Yes / No
```

After completing the prompts, `@harmonix-js/cli` will create a project folder with your chosen name and install all necessary dependencies.

For a detailed overview of the project structure, refer to the [project structure](./2.project-structure.md) page.

## Manual Installation

To set up a new Harmonix bot manually, you need to install the required packages:

```bash icon=terminal
npm install @harmonix-js/core@latest @harmonix-js/cli@latest discord.js@latest
```

Open your `package.json` file and add the following `scripts`:

```json [package.json] icon=brackets-curly
{
  "scripts": {
    "invite": "harmonix invite",
    "dev": "harmonix dev",
    "build": "harmonix build"
  }
}
```

These scripts facilitate the bot development process:

- `invite`: runs [`harmonix invite`](/) to generate an invite link for the bot.
- `dev`: runs [`harmonix dev`](/) to start the bot in development mode.
- `build`: runs [`harmonix build` ](/) to build the application for production usage.

## Providing the bot token

Harmonix uses environment variables to securely store sensitive information, such as the bot token. Create a .env file in the root directory of your project and add the bot token as follows:

```bash [.env] icon=faders
DISCORD_CLIENT_TOKEN="YOUR_BOT_TOKEN"
```

If you don't have a bot token, create a bot and obtain the token from the [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications){target=\_blank}.

## Run in Development Mode

1. Run `npm run dev` to start the bot in development mode.
2. Your bot is online in your Discord server.
3. Create a new `commands/ping.ts` to see the bot automatically restart and reflect changes.
